suit: add editable manifests and rework directory layout (#16222)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/app_dev/device_guides/working_with_nrf/nrf54h/ug_nrf54h20_suit_customize_dfu.rst

How to use your own manifest
----------------------------

> When creating an application, it is recommended to create a custom set of manifest templates and use the templates provided by Nordic Semiconductor as a starting point. Using Nordic Semiconductor templates directly in a product is strongly discouraged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating an application, it is recommended to create a custom set of manifest templates and use the templates provided by Nordic Semiconductor only as a starting point.
Using Nordic Semiconductor templates directly in a product is strongly discouraged.
```

The build system searches for the manifest templates in the following order:

> #. Check if :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_ROOT_TEMPLATE_FILENAME` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_TEMPLATE_FILENAME` exists at :file:`<sample-dir>/suit/${SB_CONFIG_SOC}/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. It checks if :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_ROOT_TEMPLATE_FILENAME` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_TEMPLATE_FILENAME` exists in the :file:`<sample-dir>/suit/${SB_CONFIG_SOC}/` file.
```

> #. Check if :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_ROOT_TEMPLATE_FILENAME` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_TEMPLATE_FILENAME` exists at :file:`<sdk-nrf-dir>/config/suit/templates/${SB_CONFIG_SOC}/${SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BASE_MANIFEST_VARIANT}/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. It checks if :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_ROOT_TEMPLATE_FILENAME` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_TEMPLATE_FILENAME` exists in the :file:`<sdk-nrf-dir>/config/suit/templates/${SB_CONFIG_SOC}/${SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BASE_MANIFEST_VARIANT}/` file.
```

The build system selects the set of files from the first successful step.

Creating custom manifest templates
==================================

> Custom manifest templates can be created in the application directory using the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create custom manifest templates in the application directory using the following command:
```

.. code-block::

   west suit-manifest init --soc nrf54h20

> This command will copy the default set of SUIT manifest templates into :file:`suit/nrf54h20` subdirectory. You can edit those manifest templates to your needs and add them into your version control system along with the generated :file:`metadata.yaml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will copy the default set of SUIT manifest templates into the :file:`suit/nrf54h20` subdirectory.
You can edit those manifest templates to your needs and add them into your version control system along with the generated :file:`metadata.yaml` file.
```

> By default, the command uses the manifest templates from the ``default`` variant. Manifest template variants serve different use cases and are described in more detail below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the command uses the manifest templates from the ``default`` variant. Manifest template variants serve different use cases, as described in the following table.
```

> +---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

Reviewer 2: Formatting needs to be corrected for line 117 as column headings are not properly formatted. See the preview: https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK_dev/doc/PR-16222/nrf/app_dev/device_guides/working_with_nrf/nrf54h/ug_nrf54h20_suit_customize_dfu.html#creating-custom-manifest-templates

Author: Should be fixed now.

|              | envelope and has a high requirement on the DFU partition size.         |                                   |                                   |
|              |                                                                        | * one radio domain firmware       | * one radio domain firmware       |
|              | Use this variant if your application does not use the external flash   |                                   |                                   |
|              | and is small enough to fit into the executable MRAM partitions and     |                                   | * nordic_top (optional)           |
|              | into the DFU partition.                                                |                                   |                                   |
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

Reviewing changes between nRF Connect SDK releases
==================================================

> THe content of the Nordic Semiconductor SUIT templates may change between the |NCS| releases, for example to fix bugs or security issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The content of the Nordic Semiconductor SUIT templates may change between the |NCS| releases, for example to fix bugs or security issues.
```

> After updating to a newer |NCS| release you can view what changes occurred in the Nordic Semiconductor templates that your custom templates were derived from and the Nordic Semiconductor templates that are present in the new |NCS| release. To do this use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After updating to a newer |NCS| release, you can view what changes occurred in the Nordic Semiconductor templates that your custom templates were derived from and the Nordic Semiconductor templates that are present in the new |NCS| release.
To do so, use the following command:
```

.. code-block::

   west suit-manifest review --soc nrf54h20

> The command will display a diff where you can review the changes. If you see a change that is relevant to your application, you can apply them manually to your custom manifest templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command displays a diff where you can review the changes.
If you see a change that is relevant to your application, you can apply them manually to your custom manifest templates.
```

After reviewing the changes, you can update the :file:`metadata.yaml` to point to the new Nordic Semiconductor templates.

.. code-block::

   west suit-manifest review --soc nrf54h20 --accept

Make sure to check-in the changes into your version control system.

Things to avoid
===============

> * In certain samples you may see the use of :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BASE_MANIFEST_VARIANT`. This Kconfig exists only for the convenience of the |NCS| developers and its use is strongly discouraged in user applications. You can safely remove this Kconfig as long as you have created your own custom manifest templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In certain samples you may see the use of :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BASE_MANIFEST_VARIANT`. 
This Kconfig exists only for the convenience of the |NCS| developers and its use is strongly discouraged in user applications.
You can safely remove this Kconfig as long as you have created your own custom manifest templates.
```

Using Nordic Semiconductor templates directly in a product is strongly discouraged.

The build system searches for the manifest templates in the following order:

#. It checks if :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_ROOT_TEMPLATE_FILENAME` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_TEMPLATE_FILENAME` exists in the :file:`<sample-dir>/suit/${SB_CONFIG_SOC}/` file.

#. It checks if :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_ROOT_TEMPLATE_FILENAME` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_TEMPLATE_FILENAME` exists in the :file:`<sdk-nrf-dir>/config/suit/templates/${SB_CONFIG_SOC}/${SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BASE_MANIFEST_VARIANT}/` file.

The build system selects the set of files from the first successful step.

Creating custom manifest templates
==================================

You can create custom manifest templates in the application directory using the following command:

.. code-block::

   west suit-manifest init --soc nrf54h20

This command will copy the default set of SUIT manifest templates into the :file:`suit/nrf54h20` subdirectory.

> You can edit those manifest templates to your needs and add them into your version control system along with the generated :file:`metadata.yaml` file.

Reviewer 3: It would be worth to mention why do you need the `metadata.yaml` file in your repo.

Author: Added section explaining the metadata file a little bit.

By default, the command uses the manifest templates from the ``default`` variant. Manifest template variants serve different use cases, as described in the following table.

+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| Variant name | Description                                                            | Bootable components               | Updateable components             |
+==============+========================================================================+===================================+===================================+

> | default      | This set of manifest templates integrates all payloads into the SUIT   | * one application domain firmware | * one application domain firmware |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| ``default``      | This set of manifest templates integrates all payloads into the SUIT   | * one application domain firmware | * one application domain firmware |
```

Author: Fixed

Reviewing changes between nRF Connect SDK releases
==================================================

The content of the Nordic Semiconductor SUIT templates may change between the |NCS| releases, for example to fix bugs or security issues.

After updating to a newer |NCS| release, you can view what changes occurred in the Nordic Semiconductor templates that your custom templates were derived from and the Nordic Semiconductor templates that are present in the new |NCS| release.
To do so, use the following command:

.. code-block::

   west suit-manifest review --soc nrf54h20

The command displays a diff where you can review the changes.
If you see a change that is relevant to your application, you can apply them manually to your custom manifest templates.

After reviewing the changes, you can update the :file:`metadata.yaml` to point to the new Nordic Semiconductor templates.

.. code-block::

   west suit-manifest review --soc nrf54h20 --accept

Make sure to check-in the changes into your version control system.

Things to avoid
===============

> In certain samples you may see the use of :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BASE_MANIFEST_VARIANT`. 
> This Kconfig exists only for the convenience of the |NCS| developers and its use is strongly discouraged in user applications.
> You can safely remove this Kconfig as long as you have created your own custom manifest templates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In certain samples you may see the use of :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BASE_MANIFEST_VARIANT` Kconfig option. 
This option exists only for the convenience of the |NCS| developers and its use is strongly discouraged in user applications.
You can safely remove this option as long as you have created your own custom manifest templates.
```

Author: Fixed

The build system searches for the manifest templates in the following order:

#. It checks if :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_ROOT_TEMPLATE_FILENAME` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_TEMPLATE_FILENAME` exists in the :file:`<sample-dir>/suit/${SB_CONFIG_SOC}/` file.

#. It checks if :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_ROOT_TEMPLATE_FILENAME` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_ENVELOPE_TEMPLATE_FILENAME` exists in the :file:`<sdk-nrf-dir>/config/suit/templates/${SB_CONFIG_SOC}/${SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BASE_MANIFEST_VARIANT}/` file.

The build system selects the set of files from the first successful step.

Creating custom manifest templates
==================================

You can create custom manifest templates in the application directory using the following command:

.. code-block::

   west suit-manifest init --soc nrf54h20

This command will copy the default set of SUIT manifest templates into the :file:`suit/nrf54h20` subdirectory.
You can edit those manifest templates to your needs and add them into your version control system along with the generated :file:`metadata.yaml` file.

> By default, the command uses the manifest templates from the ``default`` variant. Manifest template variants serve different use cases, as described in the following table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the command uses the manifest templates from the ``default`` variant.
Manifest template variants serve different use cases, as described in the following table.
```

+--------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| Variant name | Description                                                            | Bootable components               | Updateable components             |
+==============+========================================================================+===================================+===================================+

> | ``default``  | This set of manifest templates integrates all payloads into the SUIT   | * one application domain firmware | * one application domain firmware |
> |              | envelope and has a high requirement on the DFU partition size.         |                                   |                                   |
> |              |                                                                        | * one radio domain firmware       | * one radio domain firmware       |
> |              | Use this variant if your application does not use the external flash   |                                   |                                   |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| ``default``  | This set of manifest templates integrates all payloads into the SUIT   | * One application domain firmware | * One application domain firmware |
|              | envelope and has a high requirement on the DFU partition size.         |                                   |                                   |
|              |                                                                        | * One radio domain firmware       | * One radio domain firmware       |
|              | Use this variant if your application does not use the external flash   |                                   |                                   |
```

Author: Applied the change.

|              | and is small enough to fit into the executable MRAM partitions and     |                                   | * nordic_top (optional)           |
|              | into the DFU partition.                                                |                                   |                                   |
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

You can initialize the manifest templates from a different variant using the following command:

.. code-block::

   west suit-manifest init --soc nrf54h20 --variant default/latest

> This command will copy the set of SUIT manifests from the latest version of selected variant into the :file:`suit/nrf54h20` subdirectory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will copy the set of SUIT manifests from the latest version of the selected variant into the :file:`suit/nrf54h20` subdirectory.
```

If you see a change that is relevant to your application, you can apply them manually to your custom manifest templates.

After reviewing the changes, you can update the :file:`metadata.yaml` to point to the new Nordic Semiconductor templates.

.. code-block::

   west suit-manifest review --soc nrf54h20 --accept

Make sure to check-in the changes into your version control system.

Metadata file
=============

The :file:`metadata.yaml` file contains information about the Nordic Semiconductor manifest templates from which the custom manifest templates were derived.
The file should be added into the version control system alongside the custom manifest templates.

The ``west suit-manifest review`` command uses the metadata to display the changes between the lastly linked Nordic Semiconductor manitest templates and the manifest templates that are present in the |NCS| release that is currently being used.

The ``west suit-manifest review --accept`` command updates the metadata to link with the Nordic Semiconductor manifest templates that are present in the |NCS| release that is currently being used.

Things to avoid
===============

> In certain samples you may see the use of :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BASE_MANIFEST_VARIANT` Kconfig option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some samples use the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BASE_MANIFEST_VARIANT` Kconfig option.
```

> This option exists only for the convenience of the |NCS| developers and its use is strongly discouraged in user applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option exists only for the convenience of the |NCS| developers and it must not be used in user applications.
```

> You can safely remove this option as long as you have created your own custom manifest templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you create your own custom manifest templates, remove this option.
```
